
## Unit 3: Analyze tasks and scenarios for Viva Connections

To determine which tasks and scenarios to support, it's recommended that
you conduct a needs assessment with various departments, roles, and
regions within your organization. Insights from the needs assessment
will help you identify and prioritize scenarios and tasks to support.

![](../media/image7.png){width="6.25in" height="1.6145833333333333in"}

## Quickly review the types of available cards

To better understand whether a certain scenario or task can be supported
by Viva Connections, you need to learn more about the types of cards
that can be added to the Dashboard. The Dashboard will be your
organization's digital toolset and landing experience in the mobile app.
You will find that some tools and tasks will be best supported by the
Dashboard, while others are a better fit in the Resources section.

The following are cards that can be used with little configuration and
customization:

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Approvals       Use [Approvals](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-automate/get-started-approvals) for vacation requests, sign-off on
                  documents, and approve expense reports.
  --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Assigned Tasks  Use [Tasks](https://support.microsoft.com/office/assign-and-track-tasks-in-teams-56014efe-3283-4f13-a57f-1157c5e25f1f) to manage
                  your team's work, assign tasks, and track tasks.

  Card designer   Create custom cards and quick views using JSON without writing actual code.

  Shifts          Let users clock-in, clock-out, and get more information about the next or current shift from the Shifts app in Teams.

  Teams app card  Use to open a Teams personal app or bot specified by the Dashboard author.

  Third-party     Use cards that integrate [third-party services](https://cloudpartners.transform.microsoft.com/resources/viva-app-integration)
  cards           through the SharePoint Store (for example, ADP, ServiceNow, etc.)

  Top news card   Set up the Top news card to [surface boosted news from
                  SharePoint.](https://support.microsoft.com/office/boost-news-from-organization-news-sites-46ad8dc5-8f3b-4d81-853d-8bbbdd0f9c83)

  Web link        Access a site without leaving the Viva Connections app (most popular card and used to link to SharePoint portals and external
                  links.)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In addition to the cards mentioned above, developers can create their
own cards with advanced customization by extending Viva Connections with
[Adaptive Card Extensions (ACE) with SharePoint
Framework.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/viva/get-started/build-first-sharepoint-adaptive-card-extension)

## Conduct a needs assessment

The primary goal of this stage is to identify daily tasks and
pain-points for different groups of employees. Then, the team of
stakeholders will come together to analyze the findings and to discuss
how Viva Connections can solve common pain points within employees'
workdays to encourage engagement, reduce stress, and provide more
support where needed.

**Considerations when conducting a needs assessment:**

-   Identify the places and locations where your workforce is located.

-   Learn more about the needs of your workforce depending on location,
    department, and task.

-   Consider how the geographical location, culture, and industry may
    impact the workforce.

-   Explore the ways your organization communicates and collaborates the
    best.

-   Discover what your organization needs to learn in the flow of their
    work

-   Discover what your organization struggles with and give them the
    tools and insights they need to focus their time and take time to
    rest.

-   Consider the culture of your organization and the ways people
    connect with each other.

**Many data sources can be used to help your stakeholders to decide key
scenarios and tasks, including:**

-   Anecdotal observations

-   Email communications

-   Employee survey results

-   Interviews with focus group

-   Customer support tickets

-   Analytics and usage data from Microsoft 365 apps

**As you work with business owners and key stakeholders to align your
Viva Connections design strategy, answer the following for each task:**

-   Who is the audience?

-   What do users need to accomplish or learn?

-   What tools or technology do they use today?

-   What tools or technology do you want visitors to use to accomplish
    their key tasks?

-   What information needs to be promoted?

![](../media/image5.png){width="0.4777777777777778in"
height="0.4777777777777778in"}

### Learn how Lamna Healthcare starts identifying needs

In preparation for Viva Connections, as the Internal Communications
Manager, you work with the Lamna Healthcare Viva Connections planning
team conducts a needs assessment over a couple of weeks across the
organization. The purpose of the needs assessment is to understand how
each role and region currently gets work done, common pain points, and
potential improvements to create efficiencies and strengthen employee
satisfaction.

You work with the planning team members to identify the different roles
and regions across the organization and connect with leaders and people
managers that are representative of those roles and regions. The
planning team learns more about the needs of employees by interviewing
managers and a handful of individuals in certain roles, and through
surveys to broader audiences.

Here are a few issues you have discovered across the organization:

-   The HR Benefits team receives lots of emails every day asking where
    to find out information about stock, healthcare, tuition
    reimbursement, and childcare, so they spend several hours a day
    dealing with frequently asked questions and responding to inquiries
    on forms and documents.

-   Employees in all business units at Lamna reported wanting easier
    access to payroll information and calendar updates and changes.

-   With so many different roles and employees in different regions,
    several Lamna employees complained that not having access to
    job-specific news or news relating to their location made it
    difficult to be well-informed and stay in the loop. This highlights
    the need for a central location, like the Feed, where organizational
    and regional news can be easily communicated to all employees.

-   Employee satisfaction surveys received by HR professionals show that
    some employees are struggling with managing their stress and mental
    health.

![](../media/image8.png){width="2.0in" height="0.45in"}In addition, you
discovered some role specific issues. For example:

Nicoletta, a member of Lamna's janitorial staff, is an hourly paid
employee and claimed that clocking in and out of shifts was a tedious
process for her due to having to complete it on a shared computer. Since
the nature of her role requires her to travel throughout the hospital,
the manual process takes up valuable time.

![](../media/image9.png){width="2.0in" height="0.45in"}Christian is a
full-time pediatrician at your hospital, meaning she only needs to
report her monthly absences and time off. She expressed that she finds
it difficult to know exactly where to report her time off and which
tools to use.

![](../media/image10.png){width="2.0in" height="0.45in"}Diego is an IT
professional at Lamna, which requires him to move around the hospital to
address help desk tickets submitted by hospital employees. Diego and his
fellow team members explained that managing so many tickets while moving
through the hospital can be overwhelming.

You recorded all these findings in a spreadsheet to share with the
planning team and with additional stakeholders for building and setting
up Viva Connections, adoption, and post-deployment monitoring.