Once you have deployed Viva Connections, there are certain metrics you
can use to determine the effectiveness of Viva Connections. The
effectiveness of Viva Connections is related to the scenarios that were
prioritized during the planning phase. For example, if your organization
wants to reduce requests to the HR team and instead wants to encourage
self-service using Viva Connections – one metric used to evaluate the
effectiveness will be the volume of requests to HR. If Viva Connections
is effective in this scenario, an organization can expect to see a
reduction in requests and an increase in usage of self-service cards.

Through [site
level](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/view-usage-data-for-your-sharepoint-site-2fa8ddc2-c4b3-4268-8d26-a772dc55779e)
and [page
level](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/view-usage-data-for-sharepoint-pages-and-news-e3186199-ccc8-4445-9162-bb1bcec8b7ee)
usage reports in SharePoint, you can get a sense for how much your
employees are truly engaging with certain components of Viva
Connections. You can also see exactly how much time on average users
spend on pages, which can help you determine which features are the most
useful.

For a more high-level view of how your employees are using Viva
Connections and the apps it links to, [Microsoft 365 usage
analytics](/microsoft-365/admin/usage-analytics/usage-analytics?view=o365-worldwide)
provides access to a dashboard with pre-built reports that focus on the
adoption of different Microsoft 365 apps, usage, communication, and
collaboration.

:::image type="content" source="../media/m365-usage-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Microsoft 365 usage executive summary.":::
To measure how successful Viva Connections is in a more direct way,
consider creating feedback channels so employees can give insight into
exactly what works and what doesn’t. Consider using a [Link
card](/viva/connections/create-dashboard#add-a-web-link-card)
directly on the Viva Connections Dashboard that links users to a
[Microsoft
Form](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/create-a-form-with-microsoft-forms-4ffb64cc-7d5d-402f-b82e-b1d49418fd9d)
where they can give feedback like rating their satisfaction with the
platform, how useful it is in their daily life, and what features they
use the most. Yammer or Teams channels can also be used to collect
employee feedback.

:::image type="logo" source="../media/story-telling-logo-white-bg.png" :::

### Learn how Lamna Healthcare uses metrics to track progress

After the launch, you work with the Viva Connections planning team at Lamna Healthcare monitors and evaluates the effectiveness of Viva Connections and makes continued adjustments based on the insights they gain from different metrics. When reviewing the site level and page level usage reports in SharePoint, the planning team discovered the page “*Find a Provider*” is among the most visited pages. You decide to add this page as a quick link in Resources. 

In addition to monitoring usage analytics and viewing behavior, Lamna
HealthCare’s HR department is interested in understanding how Viva
Connections helps employees directly answer common questions or complete
tasks via self-service cards, such as the Benefits card, and the payroll
card. Since the launch, HR observes a drop in the number of emails and
messages in Teams that they receive. Site and page level usage report
helps the planning team confirm this trend - the HR portals are among
the most popular sites and site traffic shows that more people are
accessing HR sites than before the launch of Viva Connections.

Another metric Laman Healthcare is prioritizing is the overall
satisfaction of the experience amongst different roles and regions.
Overall, employees are very happy with the resources and tools provided
by Viva Connections. One employee said, “*I love the new landing page in
Teams! Now I can get my work done in one place*” when asked about Viva
Connections in a company poll. Another employee said “*Finally, I can
get everything done on my mobile device. I don’t have time to sit down
at a computer for basic tasks like clocking into my shift.*” Meanwhile,
other employees mention that they wish they had additional functions in
Viva Connections, such as a feature that helps them make time in their
schedule for training and learning opportunities. The planning team
captures this request and will learn if this need applies to other roles
too before considering the priority of the request.