Viva Connections optimizes communication and productivity by connecting
you with the right tools, people, and information you need to do your
best work and build skills faster.

Whether you’re on desktop or mobile, Viva Connections brings together
relevant news, conversations, and resources into Microsoft Teams where
it’s easy to share, collaborate, and chat all in one place. 

*\[The video below will be embedded here\]*

[Your intranet is now in Microsoft
Teams](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/your-intranet-is-now-in-microsoft-teams-8b4e7f76-f305-49a9-b6d2-09378476f95b)

<https://eus-streaming-video-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/b7028826-6016-4874-8a2e-8ad673dd5eb1/4c79e9c0-2667-4f23-8f56-94d6ca79_3400.mp4>

**Dashboard**

:::image type="content" source="../media/image2.png" alt-text="Screenshots of Dashboard on both desktop and mobile phone.":::

[The Dashboard is a digital toolset that brings together tools and
resources as Dashboard
cards.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/viva-connections-overview#viva-connections-dashboard)
The Dashboard enables you to create a curated experience using dynamic
cards that give employees access to high-impact tools, news, and
resources needed for their jobs. [Dashboard cards can be targeted to
specific roles and
regions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/use-audience-targeting-in-viva-connections)
to make sure the tools are easy to identify, and resources are relevant
to the viewer.

**Feed**

<img src="./media/image3.png" style="width:6.07235in;height:3.0625in" />

[The
Feed](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/viva-connections-overview#viva-connections-feed)
displays organizational news and content from the SharePoint sites and
Yammer communities that the viewer follows. The Feed automatically
incorporates fresh and engaging content from across the organization to
keep users interested, while also ensuring that they see the most
important messages. Users will see content from SharePoint news posts,
Yammer community posts, and Stream videos in SharePoint. As an
organization, you can use the News boosts, audience targeting, and
Yammers “Featured” options to [influence the content hierarchy in
the](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/faqs-viva-connections-feed#question-what-are-the-available-controls-to-influence-content-in-the-feed)
Feed, so your employees don’t miss out on important information.

**Resources**

<img src="./media/image4.png"
style="width:6.48148in;height:3.64583in" />

[Resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/viva-connections-overview#viva-connections-resources)
are the navigational links that allow you to navigate to sites, news,
files, and more. Resources can be accessed as a tab in the mobile app
and by selecting the Viva Connections icon twice in the Microsoft Teams
app bar on desktop. You can set up and customize Resources in the
[SharePoint app
bar](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/sharepoint-app-bar)
from your home site. Like the Dashboard and the Feed, [links can be
audience
targeted](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/use-audience-targeting-in-viva-connections)
so the navigation is relevant to the user and their role.

**Desktop experience**

<img src="./media/image5.jpg" style="width:3.8125in;height:2.40664in"
alt="Graphical user interface, website Description automatically generated" />

*\[The video below will be embedded here\]*

[Viva Connections on your desktop
(microsoft.com)](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/viva-connections-on-your-desktop-3da30f39-684a-4bde-bb81-2e1407d59b52)

<https://eus-streaming-video-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/715baccf-e8fa-4859-a683-61cda5bc4aee/5f3c2c38-831e-430b-ab09-fc917100_3400.mp4>

On desktop, Viva Connections integrates your SharePoint [home
site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/create-sharepoint-home-site-for-viva-connections)
and [global
navigation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/sharepoint-app-bar)
with Microsoft Teams. The desktop experience allows you to navigate to
SharePoint sites, organizational news, and other content without leaving
Teams. You can search and share intranet content in chats, teams, or
channels, making collaboration easier than ever.

Add the
[Dashboard](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/use-dashboard-web-part-on-home-site)
and
[Feed](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/use-feed-web-part-for-viva-connections)
web parts to your SharePoint home site to complete the Viva Connections
experience on the desktop app.

**Mobile view**

<img src="./media/image6.png"
style="width:4.02083in;height:2.52977in" />

*\[The video below will be embedded here\]*

[Viva Connections on the go
(microsoft.com)](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/viva-connections-on-the-go-753e0607-0bfd-4712-ad7e-18490dd565a2)

<https://eus-streaming-video-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/761d0383-7b19-49f4-9a68-ae4e8a3bbf55/383c636e-16e5-48a8-82a6-01624822_3400.mp4>

On mobile, the Viva Connections app is anchored around three key
concepts: Dashboard, Feed, and Resources. The mobile app displays the
Dashboard as the default tab in the Viva Connections app in the
Microsoft Teams app bar. Like the desktop experience, the mobile
experience allows you to navigate to SharePoint sites, organizational
news, and other important content without leaving Teams.

Viva Connections offers a variety of extensibility solutions. To learn
about how the desktop experience and dashboard cards can be extended,
take [the Extend Microsoft Viva Connections Learning
path](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/m365-extend-viva-connections/).