Before installing and setting up Viva Connections for your
organization[, certain technical requirements must be in
place](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/plan-viva-connections#step-1-meet-technical-requirements).
More information on technical requirements will be reviewed in depth in
module 2.

**Step 1 – Create a home site**: Create a SharePoint communication site
and [set it as a home site in the SharePoint admin
center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/home-site). Home
sites activate special features and provide a landing portal for the
entire organization. [Learn more about how to plan, build, and launch a
home
site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/home-site-plan).
Once a home site has been created, you’ll be able to [create the
Dashboard](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/create-dashboard).

**Step 2 – Customize global navigation:** [Enable global navigation for
the SharePoint application
bar](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/viva/connections/sharepoint-app-bar).
This customizable feature allows users to find the information that’s
most important to them such as news, sites, and files anywhere in
SharePoint. Navigational links in global navigation get inherited by the
Viva Connections Resource experience. Without setting up global
navigation, there will not be any links in the Resources tab in the
mobile app.

**Step 3 – Audit and modernize sites and content**: Ensure sites that
will receive a high volume of traffic are
[modernized](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/transform/modernize-classic-sites#:~:text=%20Modernize%20your%20classic%20SharePoint%20sites%20%201,site%20transformation%20is%20transforming%20your%20site...%20See%20More.).
For example, if you create cards on the Dashboard that link to HR (Human
Resources) portals, you will want to ensure the HR portal is modern and
meets [healthy portal
guidelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/portal-health).
Sites that have not been modernized will open in a separate browser
window instead of in Microsoft Teams.